---
layout: post
title: The Physical Recalibrartion
date: 2021-04-19 23:40:05 +0530
description: What happens when a lethargic techie wants to recalibrate his physical appearance
---

You feel like you have a lot of time in the evenings and nothing much to do. You have a load of books to read but in no mood to pick one up! You think of binging on American TV shows — sitcoms with cheesy lines, series of marathon dramas (medieval and modern). But quickly you realize that you've seen them all. At least, the one you considered worthy to allot your precious time which otherwise would be spent well on knowledge gaining by reading on sundry websites, blogs about that new super cool smart phone that you won't buy or that new super fast car running on electricity (although, you hardly get fourteen hours of electricity at home).

That’s when you stumble on that good old sitcom you had super fun watching: *Two And A Half Men*. You recall how it had the best of the cheesy one liners, delivered by the incredible *Charlie Harper*, one who could inspire awe and disgust in equal measure. Both at the same time, sometimes! You had enjoyed that ride so much that when *Ashton Kutcher* replaced *Charlie Sheen* on the show, you were pissed enough to declare that the show had lost its *sheen* and stopped watching it. AK was more like half a man than a full one, you thought.

However, desperate times call for desperate measures. After crawling all the places on www(wild wild web) and having nothing else left to do, you decide to give AK a chance. *Piratebay*, and your ISP's half hearted attempt at blocking it, come in handy to get a full season of *TAHM*. Two or three episodes into the season, watched with super critical eyes probing for opportunities to compare AK with CS only to deride him, you begin to like the show all over again. In between the idiosyncrasies of the show you notice how good the dude, AK, has maintained himself physically. You feel inspired watching him. Inspired enough to want to have a better physical outlook yourself.

You decide to take stock of the situation and come up with a plan to reach the target; the target to have a well toned physical appearance. Not necessarily the six packs of course — that would make you look like an insecure body mass screaming for attention. It could be achieved with little effor and much ease, you think. But, when you stand in front of the mirror, the reality strikes you in the face with the ferocity of a huge wave on a high tide day. The bulgy love-handles make you feel like a south Indian movie hero, who’s lover has been kidnapped by a big, baldy, devil-born-again villain. The tell-tale signs of growing man-boobs make you hear those giant movie inspired waves crashing on rocks when the said hero learns that his broad had just ditched him for the big baldy devil-born-again villain.

Sensing that the matter is about to get out of control, you begin, with the zeal of a greenhorn MBA, to work out a action-plan to get rid of all the fat around your belly and elsewhere. You plan out a regimen that is most likely to achieve the target with least effort and in the shortest time possible. The first obvious thing that comes to your mind is the Gym. However, your memory of the last time you were enrolled at a Gym makes sure that your body would never enter the Gym again. After all, how could you let your own brilliant justification - “why pay to gain the body pain” - fail the test of time. So Gym gets struck off the list of things to do. The next item that allures you in your quest for that better-physical-appearance is running. Suddenly, you want to be a runner like Forest Gump and the visions of you, clad in track suits with an Ipod strapped around your biceps, running coollu and sweating profusely come by. Only problem — you are too lazy to get up early in the morning or too tired in the evening to run. ‘Someday! I’ll make it happen.’, you resolve to yourself.

Just around this time you notice the recent phenomenon that has every *Bangalorean* and his aunt hooked on — Badminton. It’s come back in the vogue, with gusto. ‘Eureka!’, you hear yourself scream and off you go to the friendly supermarket nearby, on a mission to transform yourself from lethargic to athletic, and out you come with brand new shoes, shorts, sweat-soaking Ts, wrist bands and the third most expensive Badminton racquet on sale. Next day, you call up your little chum, who goes ecstatic about the idea, and together you book a court in the sports club nearby.

You arrive at the court on schedule pronto and inspiration strikes you second time looking at the crowd that’s there already. Warmed up after five minutes on the court, you let your athletic animal come out and roar. Well, for the next fifteen minutes anyways. You are zapped out of energy to play and you see the first hole in your athletic parachute. Your struggle to keep it soaring feels monumental. Suddenly, the ‘f’-words find a free flow exhaust in your mouth and it’s only your sheer determination and commitment to your found-again infatuation to better physical appearance takes you through the rest of your allotted court time. That, and 300ml of Zinga!

Feeling proud at your achievement and to put an icing on the cake, you decide to eat a very healthy meal for the day. The friendly Subway joint pitches itself strongly for the cause. You walk-in and order yourself a super healthy 12 inch Aloo-Patty sandwich with cheese.

Back in your place after the conquest over lethargy and laziness, you throw your racquet into a corner in the spirit of liberation, and settle down on your bean bag to watch *Up In the Air*. As the racquet attains motionless nirvana, life moves on as it had been before the whole thing began. Your quest for a changed physical outlook gets transformed into metaphysical.

Well, till you watch *Brad Pitt* in *Fight Club*, at least!